As Eskom reinstates its load shedding plan, the stability of South Africa’s electricity supply is concerning investors, disrupting production, and negatively affecting the national economy. South Africa has already had over six years of constrained electricity supply and has probably another five to go. This is having a direct impact on the confidence in the economy. In December 2014 Cabinet set up an electricity ‘war room’ and unveiled a five-point stabilisation plan. Is the stabilisation plan working? What effect will this have on electricity supply and the economy? Can South Africa plan for growth, or is this the end of the industrialised economy? These are questions that the Fossil Fuel Foundation will address at its 2015 Electricity and the Economy Conference, taking place on Wednesday 25 March 2015 at Glen Hove Conferencing in Johannesburg. At the conference, delegates will get the opportunity to hear from key figures in the industry, including Eskom’s Steve Lennon and Andrew Etzinger. Mike Rossouw, an Energy consultant to Eskom, has also been confirmed as a speaker. Other confirmed speakers include: The 2015 Electricity and the Economy Conference will explore the probable electricity supply situation based on official plans and industry expert opinion, including pricing, availability and timing. The conference will also define the magnitude and nature of the ‘confidence crisis’ while seeking to understand the concerns of key sectors of the economy with regard to electricity supply prospects. Furthermore, the Fossil Fuel Foundation intends to clarify the factors that are inhibiting confidence that would need to be addressed in order to restore it, quantify the expected growth that may result of confidence were to return, and send a strong message to leaders in the electricity supply industry as to what needs to be done to ensure electricity is not a restraint to sustained GDP growth. For more information, contact Michelle Stegen by emailing events@rca.co.za or phoning +27 11 483 1861/2. Namibia set for economic growth, low inflation and mining boom in 2015
Sibanye Gold saves 213 jobs at Cooke 4 following union talks
Mining deaths in South Africa drop 10% to lowest level ever in 2014